# May 18th, 2022

|                            |             |
| -------------------------: | :---------- |
| **Reported on**            | May-18-2022 |
| **Mitigation**             | May-19-2022 |
| **Solution Completed**     | In progress |
| **Severity**               | SEV-2       |


## What happened?

1. After the release we did on 18/05/2022, some issues were detected:
- **Critical issues:**
  - A colliders bug was introduced, affecting many old scenes and builder scenes.
  - The taskbar buttons were not working when logging as a guest. So you could not open the chat, experiences, etc.

- **Minor issues:**
  - CJK characters were not working as expected. Most of the asian symbols were not being rendered in the chat.

2. Esteban Ordano detected issues with the taskbar usage, but there were no clear repro steps. We analyzed the issue but could not find the root of the problem. After some time, he mentioned that he was logging in as a guest. This was the key information to solve the issue.

3. Nico Lorusso fixed the taskbar issue as soon as possible and released a new version.

4. Nico Earnshaw detected that the colliders issue was affecting various scenes (Golfcraft and many old builder scenes).

5. We rolled back.

6. Adri fixed the collider issue and released it again (without confirmation from the team). This miscommunication created some chaos because the CJK Fonts were back in production.

7. After some evaluation we decided to keep the release because the issue with CJK characters was minor.

## Why did it happen?

### Colliders issue
We are implementing a new ECS from the renderer. This new ECS is pointing to maximum performance. While implementing the BoxShape component, we modified the ColliderManager to have a better performance on the collider creation of the objects.

During that refactor, we accidentally removed a legacy patch/hack for builder scenes and old scenes that have a wrong default value for the “withCollisions” property of the shapes/meshes (those scenes have that value in false when it should be in true). Resulting in many deployed scenes (lots of old deployed scenes in the world were constructed with the builder, that had that problem) losing their collisions.

Not all scenes were affected, other scenes that explicitly used the “withCollisions” property of their meshes worked just fine (as they avoided the default value in those cases).

### CJK characters behavior
We had 2 main problems with the CJK fonts:

1. **Chinese/Japanese/Korean characters were not rendered correctly in our app:** The reason was because we didn’t add the font sources in the Unity project. When we created the font assets for each language, the generation of the atlas of each one of these assets was configured as Dynamic. That means that the atlas image (that is where the different symbols will be stored to be used by the CJK fonts) will be created “on demand” as needed. Initially these atlases would be empty, then they would be generated in real time each time a new symbol is requested in our app (for example when new messages are sent in the chat). So as we didn’t have the needed source files that Unity uses to generate the atlases, we were not able to see the fonts rendered in our chat.
The reason why we didn’t notice that was because, during the development process in our Unity editor, we were testing some example phrases in different asian languages (using google translator) that effectively were updated in the atlases and were rendering correctly. After that, instead of cleaning the atlases before merging, we merged them partially generated and when we tested in the final build, we tested again with the same phrases whose symbols were already generated in the atlas, and it is why we saw the fonts generated correctly even without having the fonts source files available in the project.
Clearly it was our mistake for not testing enough and not taking into account the atlases generation process.

2. **The IME panel (a panel managed by the OS that suggest the users the different asian symbols while they write from the keyboard) was not appearing when the users had their computers set with an asian configuration:** The reason was our ignorance of not knowing about this panel and what was the real process that real asian users followed to write asian characters. We only could test it by copying and pasting from some translator directly to our app. Apart from this ignorance on our side, we noticed that the WebGL platform has some compatibility problems to show this IME panel. It is currently working in our Desktop platform but not in the Web one. We’re currently investigating that.

### Social features issue
The taskbar adds components depending on which feature is activated. The friends window is not added when the user authenticates as a guest. There were no null checks for this after the implementation of the new social features UI. Therefore, when the user enters as a guest, none of the taskbar buttons were working since its required to hide all windows (including friends) before showing a new one.
Also, we did not incorporate the testing flow of the features as a guest. Not in development mode either in the RC testing plan.

## Issue Timeline

- May-18-2022: A new Release Candidate is prepared to be tested: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C01QVR7TJK1/p1652857684220729 
- May-18-2022: The Release Candidate is published in prod: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C9CTAE13J/p1652886098218279 
- May-18-2022: Esteban Ordano warn about a bad behavior of the new chat feature when he logged in as guest: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C01QVR7TJK1/p1652890919818949 
- May-18-2022: Nico Lorusso created a PR with a fix for the chat issue: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C01QVR7TJK1/p1652897869589059 
- May-18-2022: Alvaro Luque suggest to do a rollback while we make sure we have this completely fixed: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C01QVR7TJK1/p1652900164149259 
- May-18-2022: Nico Lorusso release the fix: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C01QVR7TJK1/p1652901426386919 
- May-19-2022: Nico E warn about the critical issue with the colliders and we decided to roll back immediately: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C01QVR7TJK1/p1652963826524669 
- May-19-2022: Wan Chiin informs in the #general channel publication that she is not be able to write Chinese characters in the chat: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C9CTAE13J/p1652930707616249?thread_ts=1652886098.218279&cid=C9CTAE13J 
- May-19-2022: We did a roll back and Jorge informs about that in the #general channel: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C9CTAE13J/p1652968454059299 
- May-19-2022: Adri prepared a new Release Candidate with a fix for the colliders issue in the #explorer-team channel: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C01QVR7TJK1/p1652972742340759 
- May-19-2022: Adri released it in prod in the #explorer-team channel: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C01QVR7TJK1/p1652977735633419?thread_ts=1652972742.340759&cid=C01QVR7TJK1 
- May-19-2022: Due to the quick release (1 hour and 30 minutes), the team didn’t have enough time to test it or warn Adri about the other issues and Alex warn about it: https://decentralandteam.slack.com/archives/C01QVR7TJK1/p1652979508664839?thread_ts=1652972742.340759&cid=C01QVR7TJK1 
- May-19-2022: In our daily meeting, the team discussed what to do with this last release because, although it was fixing the colliders issue, it was introducing again the other issues detected (CJK fonts). We finally decided to keep the release due to these other issues being minors.

## Impact 

### Colliders issue
Scenes built using the builder lost their collisions, some other newer scenes that don’t explicitly use the “withCollisions” property of their meshes were affected as well.

### CJK characters behavior
On one hand, most of the asian symbols were not being rendered in our app (for web and desktop version). And on another hand, the IME panel did not appear for the web version.

### Social features issue
All users authenticated as a guest could not use the taskbar, therefore the chat.

## Solution 

Several PRs with different fixes were created, merged and released in prod in order to mitigate the critical issues detected.

Apart from that, we have started to follow a new release process that ensures a more extensive testing of the application, using a test plan document where we’re going to be updating for each release in order to specify what things we should test as “base features for all releases” and as “specific features for the specific release”.

Finally, for the following releases, we will be involving more external people in the release testing process. In this way we will be able to detect more possible issues before publishing to prod.