# December, 05 - Chat & Friends service unavailable

|                          |             |
| -----------------------: | :---------- |
| **Reported on {source}** | Dec-05-2022 |
|           **Mitigation** | - |
|   **Solution Completed** | Dec-05-2022 |

## What happened?

Chat & Friends service became unreachable from external clients due to security rules updates and maintenance tasks being applied to the platform.

## Why did it happen?

Security rule updates were applied to the platform that impacted the access to the service, making it unable to receive and respond requests from external sources.

## Issue Timeline - UTC

1. 2022-12-05 15:32 Security rules updated in the platform.
1. 2022-12-05 15:47 Service alerts went off for part of the infra, as it was becoming unavailable to the public.
1. 2022-12-05 16:03 Investigating association of the issue reported with the changes in the security policies.
1. 2022-12-05 17:00 Applying patches in the security groups to the Synapse route. Testing on development. Iterating on new findings.
1. 2022-12-05 18:25 Disabled feature for Chat & Friends service on client.
1. 2022-12-05 18:35 Adding rules for the service to accept inbound comms from listed sources.
1. 2022-12-05 18:50 Development environment fixes verified. Deploying changes to production.
1. 2022-12-05 18:55 Production environment fixes verified. Reenabled service.

## Impact

Users were not able to use the friends management, direct messages or channels during the time the service was unavailable.

## Solution

Apply an update to the security rules in our deployments to allow for inbound connections.
