# December, 05 - Crash when opening backpack

|                          |             |
| -----------------------: | :---------- |
| **Reported on {source}** | Dec-05-2022 |
|           **Mitigation** | Dec-13-2022 |
|   **Solution Completed** | Ongoing     |

## What happened?

Users who had lots of wearables were crashing when opening their backpack.

## Why did it happen?

We updated Unity version to 2021. This update introduced a bug which, if the json message was long enough, it caused a crash in the processing of the string. 

## Issue Timeline - UTC

1. Users that had lots of wearables started reporting in Discord that they were unable to use their backpacks.
2. Some time was spent on finding the reason for the crash. Since we had just updated to Unity 2021, there were lots of possible origins for the crash. And we couldn't just rollback since this update involved lots of changes.
3. The first investigation was towards custom emotes not being paginated; with no result.
4. After contacting crashing users in Discord, we were able to replicate crashable wearables wallets in the dev environment.
5. When we found out the message that crashed, we implemented a mitigation in kernel and renderer.

## Impact

Users with lots of wearables were not able to open their backpacks and change wearables

## Solution

A mitigation was implemented in the json message that retrieves the wearables in kernel. It involved the following changes:

1. The original json included as many instances of any given wearable as the user had. So, this generated duplicated data. The original reason for this duplicated info was to diferentiate the wearables for different mintings, but this was not being used. So, the duplicates were removed. The downside of this action is that, currently, the owned ammount of any given wearable is not being shown in the backpack.
2. Through some testing, we could identify the length of the string which eventually crash the system. So, we are sending as many wearables as that length allows us. If we have wearables not being sent, we are showing a notification to the users. No users have complained about this notification yet.

The real solution involves doing a paginated retrieve of the wearables. To achieve this, we need to develop new endpoints as well as a different wearable processing flow in renderer. This is currently being implemented by the explorer team. 
