# November 13th, 2022 - Users joined to the #mvmf channel noticing huge lags

|                            |                        |
| -------------------------: |:---------------------- |
| **Reported on**            | November-13-2022 08:45 |
| **Mitigation**             | November-13-2022 09:16 |
| **Solution Completed**     | November-14-2022 15:14 |
| **Severity**               | SEV-2                  |

## What happened?

Users started reporting on Discord lag in the experience while exploring the world during the last day of the MVMF. Reports also mentioned that leaving the autojoined `#mvmf` channel fix the experience for them.

After being able to reproduce the issue and verified the mitigation strategy, the team turned off the channels feature to avoid players in the world from having a degraded experience.

The team kept investigating the root cause of the issue and finally arrived to the conclusion that the lag was caused by big and repeated updates being processed in the channel member list and went ahead with a fix for it.

## Why did it happen?

Channel members activity in the world was triggering updates to any user sharing the room, making processing of the client rise and generating a laggy experience for the users.

Any change in the status of a channel member, new messages or a player going online/offline was triggering a update to kernel which then led to send an update of the whole channel members list (at that time ~13K users) to the renderer which needed to refresh the UI for the channel.

## Issue Timeline - UTC

1. 2022-11-13 08:45 Users report lag while exploring the world.
1. 2022-11-13 09:05 Team identifies cause of issue possibly related to #mvmf channel.
1. 2022-11-13 09:16 Team mitigate the issue by disabling the feature flag for channels.
1. 2022-11-14 11:53 Team pushes a fix for the issue and verifies the issue is gone.
1. 2022-11-14 15:14 Team reenables channels feature in production environment.

## Impact

Users were having a degraded experience involving lag and hiccups while exploring the world.

## Solution

- [x] [Fix for the current issue merged and deployed](https://github.com/decentraland/kernel/pull/701)
