# January 11, 2023 Users with many wearables are being shown an empty list

|                        |                 |
|-----------------------:|:----------------|
|  **Reported on Slack** | January-11-2023 |
|         **Mitigation** | January-12-2023 |
| **Solution Completed** | January-12-2023 |

## What happened?

For some users who own 1000+ wearables they are not able to view them in their list of collectables, in both desktop and browser.

## Why did it happen?

The client requested the wearables of a user using the endpoint of the lambdas server `GET /wearables-by-owner`. This endpoints gets the list of owned wearables of the user from The Graph and then asks the content server for the definitions of the wearables to `POST /entities/active` with body: `{ ids: [...ids from The Graph]}`.
For the users with a lot of wearables, the payload size of the body to the request to `POST /entities/active` exceeded the limit configured in the content server, throwing an error and making the request of lambas to fail.

## Issue Timeline

1. Issue was reported on the crash channel and the investigation began.
2. It was requested to the Platform Team to investigate the issue
3. The error was identified in the Content Server.
4. A fix was tested in the Foundation nodes and proven functional.
5. A release with the fix was announced in the catalyst-owners channel.

## Impact

Users who own 1000+ wearables were not able to live the full experience of the extended passport. 

## Solution

The default limit of 100kb in the Content Server for the size of the payloads in the requests was increased to 1mb.

Note: as the users get more and more wearables, eventually the request size will go over 1mb. It can then increased again. But another solutions need to be considered, as pagination which is something not trivial for this case. 