# October 3rd, Marketplace search not working

|                          |             |
| -----------------------: | :---------- |
|    **Reported on Slack** | October-03-2023 |
|           **Mitigation** | October-03-2023 |
|   **Solution Completed** | October-03-2023 |

## What happened?

The QA team reported that the Marketplace search feature was not functioning as expected. Specifically, the `nft-api` endpoint responsible for processing search requests was having issues.

## Why did it happen?

During the development of the new search component, a more advanced search mechanism with support for fuzzy search was introduced. This required a modification of the main catalog query to support the new type of search and appropriately sort the results by relevance to the search term.

## Issue Timeline - UTC

1. 2023-10-03 09:58 The query updated version was deployed to prod.
2. 2023-10-03 11:51 A report from our QA team indicated that the search component was not performing as expected.
3. 2023-08-30 11:52 The team initiated work on the fix.
4. 2023-10-03 12:17 The fix was deployed to production, successfully resolving the issue.

## Impact

Users were unable to browse the marketplace using search terms.

## Solution

The introduction of the new search mechanism also introduced a new sorting method that functioned effectively with the new search bar, but encountered an error when used with the old search functionality. Specifically, the error message indicated:
```
error: column reference "id" is ambiguous
```
This issue was mitigated by removing the ambiguity from the query and adjusting the new SORT statement accordingly.


