# February 1, 2023 - Loading an avatar with Thunder Earrings is crashing the client

|                          |               |
| -----------------------: | :------------ |
| **Reported on Slack** | February-1-2023 |
|           **Mitigation** | February-2-2023 |
|   **Solution Completed** | February-2-2023 |

## What happened?

Users started reporting that they were not able to enter the world and a message appeared saying that the avatar failed to load due to a timeout

## Why did it happen?

A Timeout occurred while loading certain wearables that caused the avatar loading system to fall back into loading the base wearables, but that fallback system failed too. 

## Issue Timeline - UTC

1. 2023-02-01 14:17 Report of users not able to enter the world.
2. 2023-02-01 14:39 The team started investigating.
3. 2023-02-01 22:14 It was confirmed that the issue was still persisting.
4. 2023-02-01 23:56 We sent a link that pointed to a branch with a mitigation fix to increase the avatar timeout from 45 seconds to 300 seconds.
5. 2023-02-02 00:35 It was reported that an user still had issues even with the mitigation and sent some logs, those logs described even more connection problems so we tought that it was an isolated case.
6. 2023-02-02 03:04 We pushed into prod 2 changes: the timeout mitigation and a small fix for the renderer to not fail if the avatar failed to load, but the result was that the player avatar was invisible. 
7. 2023-02-02 03:51 It was confirmed that at least one of the users that reported this issue was able to enter the world.

## Impact

Some users were not able to enter the world. (537 occurrences and most of them with the same IP address)

## Solution

The mitigation was successful and a new fix is being prepared to adress this issue properly.

https://github.com/decentraland/unity-renderer/pull/4221