# August 24th, Users are not able to join Decentraland

|                          |             |
| -----------------------: | :---------- |
|    **Reported on Slack** | August-23-2023 |
|           **Mitigation** | August-24-2023 |
|   **Solution Completed** | August-24-2023 |

## What happened?

Users reported that they were not able to join Decentraland, with the error: `Cannot pick candidates from an empty list`

## Why did it happen?

One week ago (14 august 2023), the team released the Single Sign On feature, which stores the Session on the Explorer. The Explorer was not checking if that stored Session was expired, and for users using a Wallet, the Session was generated with an Ephemeral Key, which expires in 7 days. So the Explorer was trying to use that expired Session to log in to the Decentraland Services, and it was receiving an error that the Session was Expired. It started with some users, and then it increased very fast.

## Issue Timeline - UTC

1. 2023-08-23 11:12 We received a report from our developers in the Platform Team that some of the devs were not able to join Decentraland because the Catalyst Server was rejecting the request for getting the Catalyst Servers.
2. 2023-08-23 12:23 Platform Team realized that the problem is that it was requesting to the servers with an expired session. And they reported it to the Explorer Team.
3. 2023-08-17 13:38 Explorer Team and SDK Team realized the problem was with the Expiration Session that, and they created a PR with a fix, that was reviewed by the dApps Team.
3. 2023-08-17 13:51 The issue was prioritized with and a crash with SEV-1 was opened because a lot of users started of having the issue
4. 2023-08-17 18:11 The PR with the fix iterates a bit, and the team confirmed that it was working. So they release that fix, and the crash was closed

## Impact

Users were not able to join Decentraland

## Solution

Checked if the stored Session on the Single Sign On was expired, and if it was expired, regenerated.