# March 09, 2023 - Ghost mode when using builder

|                          |               |
| -----------------------: | :------------ |
| **Reported on Slack**    | 03-09-2023    |
|           **Mitigation** | 03-14-2023    |
|   **Solution Completed** | TBD           |

## What happened?

Avatar was appearing ghost mode using the builder when the creators removed a collection from the url

## Why did it happen?

Creators were using the See in World option to test their emotes collections, they equipped them and played accordingly. When they removed their collection from the url (either manually or because they were testing a new collection) the avatar appeared as a ghost.

This was because they had an emote equipped that they didn't own; the previous collection was gone of the url and was not being retrieved. This caused a failed in the avatar curation.

A catch was implemented to handle this situation. This is more a mitigation than a full solution, since the unowned emote should not be present in the avatar profile. A curation should be done before sending the profile to the client.


## Issue Timeline

- February 14, 2023: Merge to main with the corresponding release. It took longer than expected to release since it was a conflictive release which involved an unexpected rollback.
- February 10, 2023: The issue was confirmed fixed in the PR
- February 9, 2023: Issue was reported in #explorer-team

## Impact

All creators who tested an emote collection, equipped it, went back to the builder, and chose another collection which didn't have the original emote

## Solution

Fix ghost avatar when not owning an emote https://github.com/decentraland/unity-renderer/pull/4592
