# May 5th, 2023 - Some users are not loading

|                          |               |
| -----------------------: | :------------ |
| **Reported on Slack**    |  May-05-2023  |
|           **Mitigation** |  May-05-2023  |
|   **Solution Completed** |  May-05-2023  |

## What happened?

Users experienced some avatars not loading and staying in a ghost shader preview, causing some client crashes.

## Why did it happen?

The incorrect deployment of some profiles caused them to not be loaded in the explorer.
This wrong deployment had a user definition containing some duplicated equipped wearables.
Because the explorer team was about to release the weekly version, to mitigate this issue a hotfix was applied in the release branch, in order to avoid crashes when handling duplicated equipped wearables.
In the meanwhile a validation has been added to the catalyst disallowing the deployment of wrong avatars containing duplicated wearable Ids.

## Issue Timeline - UTC

1. 2023-05-06 First Scattered reports started to appear.
2. 2023-05-08 05:27 More users started to be affected and the incident has been opened.
3. 2023-05-08 11:26 Initial report validation started, trying to assess and localise the problem
4. 2023-04-13 15:00 [Workaround](https://github.com/decentraland/unity-renderer/pull/5138) to avoid crashes has been found in the explorer side
5. 2023-04-13 15:13 Fix has been merged in the [release candidate branch](https://github.com/decentraland/unity-renderer/pull/5130)
6. 2023-04-13 16:41 Release has been deployed, fixing the issue

## Impact

Throughout the duration of the incidents, some users were not able to be loaded by other peers, not allowing the interaction with them inside the world.
A smaller set of users was occasionally crashing due to the avatars loading errors.

## Solution

A workaround to avoid critical errors in the wearables handling on the explorer side has been applied as a quick fix.
In addition, as a second step, a validation of the profile deployment has been added to the catalysts.

- [x](https://github.com/decentraland/unity-renderer/pull/5138)
- [x](https://github.com/decentraland/schemas/pull/191)
