# August 17th, Mic remains open when releasing the T key

|                          |             |
| -----------------------: | :---------- |
|    **Reported on Slack** | August-11-2023 |
|           **Mitigation** | August-11-2023 |
|   **Solution Completed** | August-17-2023 |

## What happened?

Users reported that their mic remained opened when they thought they have closed it. Therefore, private talks were exposed in the voice chat.

## Why did it happen?

Its unclear the reasons why the mic remained opened. Theories were that the user could use an undocumented feature (LeftAlt+T) which left the mic open or that the users changed tab while the mic was open. Actions were taken to solve to avoid his kind of situation. 

## Issue Timeline - UTC

1. 2023-08-11 03:56 It was reported on Slack that some users complained that mic was still open when it shouldn't. As a mitigation, the voice chat feature was disabled 
2. 2023-08-15 11:11 On the same thread an update was asked. It was raised as a SEV-2 crash to be solved while the feature was disabled.
3. 2023-08-17 07:56 Solution was pushed and released as hotfix

## Impact

Users that participated in the voice chat.

## Solution

There was no clear repro steps, but some weakness where found on the system that were solved. This could have been the origin of the issue, we'll keep an eye of the issue to check if it resurfaces. The solutions were:

1) Removed the LeftAlt+T functionality that left the mic open. This was not clearly documented in any tutorial, and could have been the cause of the issue; since the only way to close the mic was to press LeftAlt+T. Until clearly documented, the feature was removed.
2) The mic now closes automatically when the application loses focus. It doesnt matter if the user keep pressing the T key
3) There was a race condition in Kernel which could leave the mic open. If the user pressed the T key quickly, multiple calls were fired at the same time (On and Off). The On call has a delay that waits for mic permissions, so it took a little bit longer. The Off call finished earlier than the On, therefore the mic was left open. This race condition was solved as well, since it was a possible culprit of the mic being left open. 