# May 23rd, Cannot log in to Goerli network

|                          |             |
| -----------------------: | :---------- |
|    **Reported on Slack** | May-23-2023 |
|           **Mitigation** | May-23-2023 |
|   **Solution Completed** | May-23-2023 |

## What happened?

Goerli network cannot be logged into on any platform or login type. For both wallet and guest loading takes to an avatar creation screen with no avatar preview and wearables available and clicking Done doesn't progress further. Issue occurs for normal login into Goerli as well as when using the Builder.

## Why did it happen?

When using the Goerli network, Explorer tries to connect with Catalysts in .zone (generally dev/testing environment) as opposed to the production ones provided for Mainnet. The default realm for this environment is artemis (peer.decentraland.zone) which was failing in its reponses to the client, generating the above mentioned situation and blocking the user experience.

## Issue Timeline - UTC

1. 2023-05-22 11:06 The `artemis` node was set to only sync `scenes` entities to trigger a resynchronization from scratch in order to measure the performance improvements done after parallelizing scenes validations during deployment
2. 2023-05-23 05:07 An issue related to Goerli collections and network was reported, impacting all users connecting to this network
3. 2023-05-23 06:03 Engineering team started researching the issue
4. 2023-05-23 06:44 The team narrowed down the issue to the `artemis` (peer.decentraland.zone) realm
5. 2023-05-23 08:05 It was discovered that the `artemis` node had many active entities missing in its database due to the scenes-only resynchronization triggered the prior day. Therefore a new resynchronization, without blacklisting, any entities was triggered
6. 2023-05-23 08:11 Resynchronization of the `artemis` node finished
7. 2023-05-23 08:11 The resolution was verified internally, by checking that the database now contained the previously absent active entities, and externally, by confirming that the users were able to establish connections to the network.

## Impact

All users connecting to Goerli network and dev environments without a specific realm selection other than artemis were affected and were not able to log into the world.

## Solution

The `artemis` node's database contained only scene entities, indicating that none of the other entities were synchronized. This problem arose as a result of the testing conducted on May 22nd. Prior to initiating the resynchronization, all entities except for scenes were blacklisted on this server. This was done to assess the enhancements made to the scenes deployments.
The issue was solved after re-triggering a synchronization from scratch on this node without having any blacklisted entity, making the node to sync all the content successfully.