# November 15th, 2025 - Genesis Plaza assets appearing in Worlds

|                          |               |
| -----------------------: | :------------ |
|    **Reported on Slack** | November-15-2025 |
|           **Mitigation** | November-15-2025 |
|   **Solution Completed** | November-15-2025 |

## What happened?

Users were receiving Genesis Plaza assets when entering worlds located at the 0,0 coordinates.

## Why did it happen?

The issue was caused by the new ISS (Initial Scene State) asset delivery system. Genesis Plaza had been converted to ISS, and an edge case was not considered. Assets unload based on the player’s distance to the scene, but changing worlds does not move the player’s position. Because of this, Genesis Plaza assets were never unloaded.

## Issue Timeline - UTC

1. 2025-11-15 07:49- Incident reported (DCL-2047)
2. 2025-11-15 08:27 - BE started investigated the issue to find for problems with the service
3. 2025-11-18 11:27 - The issue with ISS was detected, and asset were rollbacked to the pre-ISS version
4. 2025-11-18 11:55 - Assets were built and the asset-bundle-registry updated. Incident resolved

## Impact

- **Severity**: SEV-2
- Worlds that were at `0,0` location couldnt load properly due to Genesis Plaza assets still being there


## Solution

As an immediate fix, Genesis Plaza assets were rolled back to their pre-ISS version using OPSCLI:

```
npx @dcl/opscli@latest queue-ab-conversion 
--token token 
--cid bafkreichelc5ssrjivd3jmolg5yi3qgxcrvir6kh4z4hgolvzmkn6rlupi 
--ab-server https://ab-admin.decentraland.org
 --force
 ```

At the time, ISS was not applied automatically unless the --doISS parameter was explicitly added. Rebuilding without that flag restored the pre-ISS state.

For the permanent fix, a PR was created: https://github.com/decentraland/unity-explorer/pull/6195

This change invalidates the partition when teleporting to a new world, ensuring previous assets unload correctly. It was released in client version 0.104.0.

After the release, Genesis Plaza was reconverted to ISS. The issue was fully resolved.