# March 14th, 2026 - Users unable to login with Crypto wallets / Magic options

|                        |               |
| ---------------------: | :------------ |
|           **Ticket ID** | DCL-2278      |
|  **Reported on Slack** | April 13, 2026 |
| **Solution Completed** | April 22, 2026 |

## What happened?

Users reported intermittent crashing (mostly on Windows) when walking around genesis plaza. The frequency of this crash had recently increased significantly. In some cases this manifested in an application closure, without any specific crash logs or crash dumps.

## Why did it happen?

``main.crdt`` is a binary file used in Decentraland scenes (SDK7) to store the initial entity-component state of a scene in CRDT (Conflict-free Replicated Data Type) format.

It holds a pre-baked snapshot of a scene's entities and their components (transforms, meshes, materials, etc.) in serialized CRDT message format. 

The creator hub will export the ``main.crdt`` file when building the scene, in addition it writes Creator Hub only components that are not part of the SDK7 Runtime, and thus are not meant to be consumed by the explorer.

On the explorer side, these were not correctly being ignored, although not fully consumed we noticed that due to the format of this data it lead to really difficult to detect heap corruption. 

## Issue Timeline – UTC

1. **2026-04-13 9:53** – SEV-2 issue opened, gathering of data regarding the issue & initial investigation.
2. **2026-04-17 12:11** – Escalated to SEV-1 due to wider reporting, additional support requested to help finalize the issue.
3. **2026-04-22 14:44** – Issue Resolved

## Impact

- **Severity**: SEV-1 – Critical user-facing outage.
- Windows users faced regular crashing when running around the plaza.

## Solution

Any Creator Hub specific components are now ignored from [this PR](https://github.com/decentraland/unity-explorer/commit/8a7b0050050e3549eea1e3262984a65f13e9d05e). This avoids any heap corruption issues with invalid data structures.

## Preventive Actions

Future creator hub components will now be ignored.
